The Project Gutenberg eBook of Helps and hints for Hallowe'en, by
Laura Rountree Smith

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Helps and hints for Hallowe'en

Author: Laura Rountree Smith

Release Date: September 13, 2022 [eBook #68984]

Language: English

Produced by: Charlene Taylor and the Online Distributed Proofreading
             Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This file was produced from
             images generously made available by The Internet
             Archive/American Libraries.)

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK HELPS AND HINTS FOR
HALLOWE'EN ***






                             Helps and Hints
                                  _for_
                                Hallowe’en

                                    By
                           Laura Rountree Smith

                              [Illustration]

                        MARCH BROTHERS, Publishers
                 208, 210, 212 Wright Ave., Lebanon, Ohio

                           COPYRIGHT, 1920, By
                              MARCH BROTHERS




Contents


                                              PAGE

    INTRODUCTION                                 5

    PARTY SUGGESTIONS:
      Nut-Crack Night                            7

    HALLOWE’EN STUNTS:
      A Shadow Play                             11
      The Black Cat Stunt                       13
      A Pumpkin Climbing Game                   14

    EXERCISES:
      Hallowe’en Acrostic                       15
      Take Care, Tables are Turned!             16

    DRILLS:
      Clown Drill and Song                      18
      Autumn Leaf Drill                         20
      Cat-Tail Drill                            22
      Muff Drill                                24

    DIALOGS AND PLAYS:
      The Hallowe’en Ghosts                     26
      On Hallowe’en Night                       29
      Jack Frost’s Surprise                     35
      An Historical Hallowe’en                  39
      The Witch’s Dream                         45
      A Hallowe’en Carnival and Wax-Work Show   50
      The Play of Pomona                        55
      Hallowe’en Puppet Play                    61




NOTE


SEND FOR OUR COMPLETE CATALOG IN WHICH WILL BE FOUND ALL THE ACCESSORIES
NEEDED IN CARRYING OUT THE IDEAS GIVEN IN THIS BOOK.

                        MARCH BROTHERS, PUBLISHERS
                 208, 210, 212 Wright Ave., Lebanon, Ohio




[Illustration]




Introduction

    Hist! be still! ’tis Hallowe’en,
    When fairies troop across the green!


On Hallowe’en when elves and witches are abroad, we find it the custom
over all the world to build bonfires, to keep off evil spirits; and this
is the night of all nights to entertain friends with stunts similar to
those performed two hundred years ago. On this night fortunes are told,
games are played, and if it so happens that your birthday falls on this
night, you may even be able to hold converse with fairies—so goes the
ancient superstition!

    So, careful be on Hallowe’en,
      Whenever you come out;
    So, careful be on Hallowe’en,
      The witches are about!

Hallowe’en had its origin in the old Druid festival. The Druids kept
fires burning all the year in honor of the sun-god. On the last night
of October, they met at the altars where their fires were burning, put
them out with much pomp and ceremony, and again relighted them. They
took embers from the new fires, returned home and kindled fires on their
own hearths. Superstition had it, that a home where one of these fires
burned constantly, throughout the year, was protected from all evil.
Later on, any fire kept evil spirits away. While each country still has
its own witches, fairies and ghosts, they all agree the night of October
31st is a great time for celebrations.

This little book will be found useful in school, church and home, in
planning celebrations for Hallowe’en.

The very air is full of magic, so,

    LET’S WRITE AN INVITATION HEARTY,
    ON HALLOWE’EN NIGHT, TO A NUT-CRACK PARTY.

[Illustration]




Party Suggestions




Nut-Crack Night


[_In the northern part of England, Hallowe’en is still called Nut-Crack
Night._]

For a Nut-Crack Night Party, write invitations on a pumpkin-shaped
booklet, cut double, with face of Jack-o’-Lantern painted outside; inside
write:

    On Nut-Crack Night you’ll meet your fate,
    Please come at eight, do not be late;
    What mysteries are to be seen,
    You will not know ’til Hallowe’en.

Decorate your rooms with yellow and black tissue paper streamers, and
hang from the ceiling by threads, cats, owls, bats and witches cut from
black paper. Pinned on the curtains and screens they give a weird effect.
Light the rooms with Jack-o’-Lanterns or electric candles.

The usual nut-cracking, floating walnut shells in tubs, throwing apple
paring three times over head and at last on the floor, to show initials
of name of future husband, may be indulged in. Have sets of letters of
the alphabet in a basket, allow guest to take a handful and arrange name
of lad or lass they will marry.

Walnut shells tied with ribbon will contain fortunes, or they may be
attached to strings concealed in a paper pudding. Each guest draws a
string for a fortune at the end.

Other fortunes may be obtained at a post office, received in the form of
a letter, postal, package or paper.

To pay for the mail, require each guest to do some stunt, he must then
undo his paper or whatever he receives, and reveal his fortune to the
rest.

A palmist, astrologer or gipsy may also give fortunes.

Some of the fortunes will read:

1.

    There is magic in your smile,
    Use it every other mile.

2.

    You’d better write a note to-night
    On paper blue, or pink or white.

3.

    When you meet a certain lass,
    You should never let her pass.

4.

    When you’re looking in brown eyes,
    You will get a great surprise.

5.

    On a journey you will go,
    In a day, a week, or so.

6.

    You’ll receive a charming letter,
    It will leave you feeling better.

7.

    You may think your fortune funny,
    But you’re going to get some money.

8.

    Your fortune is a good one, very,
    Go search now in the dictionary.

9.

    Back of the sofa pillow see,
    A roll of good things wait for thee.

10.

    Some eyes are hazel, some are blue,
    a pleasant fortune waits for you.

Some stunts suggested are:

1.

    Tell a story about a ghost,
    Be sure you don’t alarm your host.

2.

    Backward walk around the room,
    You’ll walk into something soon.

3.

    Kiss the shadow if you dare,
    Of the black cat on the stair.

4.

    With paper and scissors form the habit,
    To cut a very cunning rabbit.

5.

    Whistle a tune or sing a song,
    Don’t keep the audience waiting long.

6.

    Perform a dance or whistle very
    Like a wild bird, or canary.

Hide nuts about the room, allow the guest three minutes to search, and
the one with the most, obtains a prize.

Hide animal crackers also, give each guest a folded paper on which is
written such a verse as:

    “Soon you’ll hear the lion roar,
    You never met the like before.”

He must search for the animal-cracker lion; if he finds any other animal
he must leave it undisturbed for the right party to find. Jingles about
the animals may readily be prepared by the hostess. A few are suggested:

    The elephant’s gait is slow and steady,
    You see his trunk is always ready.

    The friendly cow is often seen,
    On this night of Hallowe’en.

    The tiger is often in a rage,
    You’d better put him in a cage.

    You may come from shores remote,
    But you don’t want to be the goat.

Pass out cards with the questions and give guest a certain time to
complete; those who have correct lists are presented with bags of peanuts.

    The first part of this nut you drink,
    Stop a minute, better think—Cocoanut.

    Humpty Dumpty had a fall,
    He sat so high on a big stone—Walnut.

    If you name a color found in eyes,
    The answer brings you a surprise—Hazelnut.

    You like to spread it thick on bread,
    You drop it on that side it’s said—Butternut.

    On all the mighty oak trees grow
    A nut whose name you surely know—Acorn.

Other little jingles can readily be made up like the above, naming such
nuts as peanut, pecan, philbert, etc.




Hallowe’en Stunts




A Shadow Play for Hallowe’en


A person standing out of view, recites the following verses as pictures
appear. The pictures may be cut from dark tag board and lowered from
above or shifted in from the side, or real people may pose back of the
sheet if desired. To make a screen, have a sheet stretched between a
doorway, back of which a bright light is placed. Have the other room
dark, in which the audience is assembled. The performers in posing
between the light and the sheet make the shadows.

1.

    Suppose at night, on Hallowe’en,
    The Witch appears upon the screen—
    Tell me, would anybody scream?

[_Witch appears._]

2.

    Suppose the Owl, who’s very wise,
    Should wink and blink his great round eyes,
    Would he take you by surprise?

[_Owl cut from cardboard with eyes cut out so that light shines through._]

3.

    Suppose the Cat grew larger by half;
    I wonder would it make you laugh,
    So you would lean upon a staff?

[_Cat cut from cardboard. Move same nearer light to produce enlarging
effect._]

4.

    Suppose Jack-o’-Lantern spoke to you,
    And in accents crisp and new,
    Said, “Ho, ho, ho, I’ve come for you!”

[_Jack-o’-Lantern cut from cardboard with eyes, nose and mouth cut out so
that light shines through._]

5.

    Suppose the Brownie’s beckoning hand,
    Lured you out to Fairyland,
    His language would you understand?

[_Have a hand extended back of screen in the act of beckoning._]

6.

    A Ghost you see, scary as can be,
    He eats superstitions regularly,
    He’s looking for you, looking for me.

[_Ghost appears._]

7.

    Throw the apple paring round,
    Gently three times, on the ground,
    My lover’s initials I have found.

[_A girl throws paring._]

8.

    Mirror, mirror, tell me true,
    On Hallowe’en what can I do,
    If you reflect a face that’s new?

[_A girl with mirror, someone looking over her shoulder._]

9.

    Oh, fortune cake, make no mistake,
      Before the party is over;
    Of your sweetness, I’ll partake,
      My true love to discover.

[_A boy with an enormous cake._]

10.

    On this palm-leaf fan, I see
    A maiden smiling merrily,
    On Hallowe’en she smiles at me.

[_A boy looking at large palm-leaf fan._]

11.

    Druid of the long ago,
    Leaning on your staff you go.
    Will your fire burn a year or so?

[_A boy in bent position, leaning on a cane._]

12.

    Ho, ho, little boy, run, oh, run!
    Ho, ho, on Hallowe’en have your fun.
    Ho, ho, ho, ho, our play is done.

[_Little boys with real Jack-o’-Lanterns, run back of sheet, then come
out in front and bow._]




The Black Cat Stunt


A student in cap and gown, stands across from a table where a very quiet,
gentle cat is held still by a child. Children in a row at the back of
stage hold up books, as though studying. The student recites:

    THE STUFFED CAT

    Who stuffed that cat? No one spoke in school,
    For ’twas study time and against the rule.
    The children in their seats might stare,
    The visitor, little did he care.
    What a very ridiculous nose!
    What an exceedingly awkward pose!
    Such extremely pointed ears
    Have never belonged to a cat, my dears.
    And those big, round, shining eyes
    Never belonged to a cat that size!
    If a real cat on the table sat,
    He’d be inclined to laugh at that!
    Who stuffed that cat? Was it a clown?
    Who always jokes in striped gown?
    Tho’ I’m not old or very wise,
    For a cat you’ve made an odd disguise.
    When anything you want to do,
    It’s well to learn the thing, ’tis true;
    Excuse me, if I laugh at that,
    Your very funny, old STUFFED CAT!

[_The child holding the cat pokes it, the cat rises and walks about, the
children laugh, while the student shows his surprise, and walks off in an
indignant manner._]




A Pumpkin Climbing Game


The children are shown a room with half a dozen pumpkins on the floor.
They practice walking about, stepping over them. One is blindfolded. The
pumpkins are quickly removed and the rest laugh at his efforts to step
over them. Apples or candles in candlesticks may be used, instead of
pumpkins. This game makes much laughter.




Exercises




A Hallowe’en Acrostic

[_For ten children, either boys or girls._]


A witch comes on the stage with a basket full of letters to spell the
word “Hallowe’en.” She pins one on each child, and they dance about and
stand in groups; as she calls for the letters, one by one they arrange
themselves in a line, come forward, hold up letter and recite.

ALL:

    Witches, witches, leaping ditches,
      Everywhere are seen;
    Witches, witches, with their switches,
      Late on Hallowe’en.

H.:

    Hold your head up high, for passing by
    The cat and owl do often cry.

ALL:

    Meow, meow! Who, who!

A.:

    Autumn time brings jolly fun,
    From Jack-o’-Lantern we won’t run.

ALL:

    He has terrible eyes, oh, my! oh, my!

L.:

    Look for charm, and look for token,
    Witches’ spell will then be broken.

ALL:

    Four-leaf clover, four-leaf clover,
    Look for it the wide world over.

L.:

    Late at night upon the post
    You may see a solemn ghost.

ALL:

    Whist! be still, a ghost! a ghost!

O.:

    Once a year you may discover,
    In a mirror, friend or lover!

ALL:

    Mirror, mirror, smile at me.

W.:

    Well for you to say your prayers,
    If you’re all alone upstairs.

ALL:

    The wind may call for me and you,
    OOO—OOO—OOO!

E.:

    Every year, I always fear,
    When the goblins are drawing near.

ALL:

    They may be afraid of you—
    Just bow and say, “How—do—you do?”

E.:

    Echo hear the ghost’s shrill cry,
    “It’s Hallowe’en—I’m passing by.”

ALL:

    A ghostly cry, oh, my!

N.:

    Now we all will say good night,
    I hope, we gave no one a fright!

WITCH:

    Oh, no, my dears, you’re most polite,
    It just takes me to scare you quite;
    The witches often sigh, ’tis true,
    Good-bye, good-bye, good-bye to you!

[_All march off._]




Take Care, Tables Are Turned!


[_The children enter, stand in line and recite. After each recitation is
given, the object they mention is seen, shown over a screen at the back
of stage. The Witch, Owl, etc., may wear masks, the Bat may be made of
paper and swung from above._]

ALL:

    We all have frolicked on Hallowe’en.
    We hear strange sounds, what can they mean?

FIRST:

    What if my Jack-o’-Lantern came to life?
    I made his mouth so big and wide,
    And put a candle bright inside!

ALL:

    What if he came to life?

SECOND:

    What if my Witches made of black paper,
    On Hallowe’en should cut up a caper?

ALL:

    What if they came to life?

THIRD:

    What if the Owl I stuffed this year
    Should very suddenly appear,
    And cry, “Tu-who, are you all here?”

ALL:

    What if he came to life?

FOURTH:

    What of the black cat, so sleek and fat,
    I cut and mounted upon a mat?

ALL:

    What if he came to life?

FIFTH:

    Suppose my Bat of paper there,
    Should go a-sailing through the air!

ALL:

    What if he came to life?

SIXTH:

    I made a Brownie, a jolly fellow,
    In a jacket black and yellow.

ALL:

    What if he came to life?

[_The objects mentioned, now come forward from behind the screen, and
scare the first children, who run off the stage. They shake fingers at
the audience and recite_]:

    Be very careful what you make,
    Or you may find ’tis a mistake
    To cut such cunning people out;
    They’ll come to life beyond a doubt,
    On Hallowe’en, on Hallowe’en!
    Hurrah! hurrah! for Hallowe’en!




Drills




Clown Drill and Song


[_The drill is given by ten boys dressed as clowns. March in, hands on
the shoulders of the one in front, keep in step. Form line at front of
stage, and sing._]

Tune: “Yankee Doodle.”

1.

    We are the Clowns of Hallowe’en,
      We’ll tell you what we’ll do, Sir;
    The same old stunts you’ve always seen,
      For we know nothing new, Sir!

CHORUS.

    Ha, ha, ha, we’ll keep in tune,
      Tho’ where we are going,
    We can’t tell you very soon,
      We’ve no way of knowing.

2.

    We are the Clowns of Hallowe’en,
      And though we have no money,
    We’ll caper lightly o’er the green,
      To make you think we’re funny.

CHORUS: [_Clap hands._]

3.

[_The music is played, they look wildly at each other as though
forgetting the words, but come out strong on the chorus, waving caps._]

4.

    What if our words should now give out,
      Who’ll help us with our singing?
    We will surprise you without doubt,
      A little bell we’re ringing.

CHORUS: [_Ring a tea bell._]

[_March right and left, meet in two lines, stand sides to audience, hold
up hands, end couple passes through; the next couple, and the next pass
through, until all have passed and taken place again in lines. Form
a circle, any one is chosen to skip in and out between them, when he
returns to place another is chosen to skip in and out, etc. All go to
center and back, every other one to center and back, all again to center,
wave caps and shout “hurrah.” Form in lines right and left, sides to
audience, play ball, throwing it back and forth from line to line for
anyone to catch. March in lines, hands on hips. Skip in couples, all go
out, re-enter, line up and recite_:]

FIRST:

    I am going to bed, yes, going to bed,
    And pull the covers high over my head,
        Late on Hallowe’en.

ALL:

    What’s the use of going to bed—
    Is there any rhyme or reason?

SECOND:

    What’s the use of going to bed?
    You’ll have to get up in season!

[_First runs off._]

THIRD:

    I’ve gotten dressed in my very best,
    So witches and goblins will be impressed,
        Late on Hallowe’en.

ALL:

    What’s the use of getting dressed?
    Is there any rhyme or reason?

FOURTH:

    What’s the use of getting dressed?
    You’ll have to undress next season!

[_Third runs off._]

FIFTH:

    I’m going to eat some pumpkin pies,
    And leave one, the witches to surprise,
        Late on Hallowe’en.

ALL:

    What’s the use of eating pies?
    Is there any rhyme or reason?

SIXTH:

    What’s the use of eating pies?
    You’ll be hungry again next season.

[_Fifth runs off._]

SEVENTH:

    I’m going to wash my face so well,
    And hide away—where, I shan’t tell,
        Late on Hallowe’en.

ALL:

    What’s the use to wash your face?
    Is there any rhyme or reason?

EIGHTH:

    What’s the use to wash your face?
    You’ll get soiled again next season!

[_Seventh runs out._]

NINTH:

    I see no use in anything at all,
    So for an exit I will call,
        Late on Hallowe’en.

ALL:

    What’s the use of anything?
    Is there any rhyme or reason?

[_All tip-toe out but the tenth._]

TENTH:

    What’s the use of anything?
    Will you tell me, please, next season?

[_Looks about wildly for response, sees he is alone on the stage, runs
off._]




Autumn Leaf Drill


To be given by any number of children of different ages and sizes; the
whole school may take part if desired.

At the back of the stage stretch wire netting the entire way across, and
cover completely with pretty sprays of autumn leaves, willow and oak.
The children may wear white costumes with artificial leaves red, yellow,
brown and green upon them.

[_They enter in couples, hold hands high, bow to audience, whirl round,
two and two; each takes right hand of partner, whirls round, bows to
partner; girls hold out skirts in both hands, skip round partner, arms on
hips; repeat, one arm on hip, one over head, join hands, skip again in
couples; all pause, sing._]

Tune: “Welcome Sweet Springtime”—Rubinstein.

    WELCOME TO AUTUMN

    Welcome to autumn, her trumpeters call,
    Crimson and yellow, autumn leaves fall;
    Welcome to autumn we all gather here,
    Singing a farewell song.
    Winter is coming, and long will we dream,
    While fairy snowflakes fall o’er the flowers;
    Winter is coming, he’s frozen each stream,
    Still we have happy hours.
    Dancing away while the echoes are ringing,
    Softly the breezes are joining our singing;
    Come, dance away, for bright autumn is here,
    It is, as you know, the last ball of the year.
    Welcome to autumn, and heed our gay song,
    Gayly come dancing out on the green;
    Welcome to autumn, we all wish thee long,
    Welcome to HALLOWE’EN!

[_A Witch enters at the side and taps once as she recites first verse,
twice for the next, and so on._]

WITCH:

    Down the leaves all flutter, oh!
    Hallowe’en has come, you know.

[_All kneel._]

WITCH:

    They rise again and flutter ’round,
    Tripping lightly o’er the ground.

[_All rise and whirl in couples._]

WITCH:

    Wave about, but softly creep,
    Soon the autumn leaves will sleep.

[_All wave hands to audience._]

WITCH:

    Listen, listen, don’t you hear
    Jack Frost’s footsteps coming near?

[_All hold right hand to ear, listening._]

WITCH:

    What will you do, when the witch is seen,
    Late at night on Hallowe’en?

[_All cover faces with hands._]

WITCH:

    Music’s charms, music’s charms,
    Will always silence all alarms.

[_The Witch disappears, they all join hands, skip forward and back,
repeat song, skip off in couples._]

The drill can be lengthened by introducing any familiar folk dances and
songs.




Cat-tail Drill


An even number of girls and boys enter with real or made cat-tails, tied
with yellow and black streamers of tissue paper. They enter from right
and left.

[_The boys form a circle at the right, girls form a circle at the left,
hold cat-tails high; all circle toward the right, all circle toward the
left, go to center and back in each circle; each circle forms a line,
stand with sides to audience, face each other, march forward and back
twice; march forward, pass between and back to places, repeat and stay on
opposite sides; march again, meet, hold cat-tails touching, end couples
pass under the next, and next, until all have passed under and returned
to place in lines. March now right and left, line tip in two lines, girls
in front, boys behind, drill to four counts of music. Hold cat-tails
vertically out in right hand to right, left, up, down, swing to and fro;
repeat, hold in left hand, describe a circle holding in left hand, in
right hand. Make the circle toward left, right, and out in front. Hold
horizontally with both hands out in front, under chins, above heads,
raise and lower in this position. Hold cat-tails under chins, recite_]:

    Hark! hark!
    The night is dark,
    The witches are coming to town,
    On Hallowe’en,
    They all are seen,
    And each in a brand-new gown.

[_Girls lower cat-tails, boys raise cat-tails, recite_]:

BOYS:

    Cat-tails growing by the streams,
    Elves and fairies they have seen.

GIRLS:

    At this hour let us dream,
    Late at night on Hallowe’en.

[_They all sing, swaying cat-tails to and fro._]

Tune: “Lightly Row.”

1.

    Lullaby, lullaby,
    Swinging low and swinging high;
    Lullaby, lullaby,
    Late on Hallowe’en.
    Nod your little drowsy head,
    Play you’re fast asleep in bed;
    Lullaby, lullaby,
    Late on Hallowe’en.

[_Mark time with feet._]

2.

    Lullaby, lullaby,
    On our tiptoes we will creep;
    Lullaby, lullaby,
    While the witches sleep.
    In October it is well,
    To escape the fairies’ spell;
    Lullaby, lullaby,
    Quiet we will keep.

[_Boys march to right and in a circle, girls to left in a circle._]

3.

    Lullaby, lullaby,
    There is nothing to alarm;
    Lullaby, lullaby,
    Cat-tails bring no harm.
    Jack-o’-Lantern’s ghost is seen,
    Everywhere on Hallowe’en;
    Lullaby, lullaby,
    Wave your magic charm.

[_March off stage._]




Muff Drill


Nine girls enter with muffs, made by covering a muff shape of tag board
with white tissue paper; on one side of the muff is pasted an owl’s head,
on the other a letter to spell the word “Hallowe’en.”

[_Enter girls from left stage, in groups of three at a time. Each girl
holds muff in right hand. First group marches to front, holds muffs up,
down, right, left, to four counts; marches to back of stage and takes
position facing audience. The second group of three now enters, goes
through the same exercise and takes place in front of the first group.
The last group enters, and goes through the same exercise as the others
and takes place in front of others. All now march to front of stage
keeping positions. Hold muffs up, down, right, left, wave to and fro,
back line holds muffs up, second line holds muffs up, front line holds
muffs up. Now put both hands in muffs, wave up, down, right, left, to and
fro. All hold muffs over faces, lower them and recite_]:

    See the muffs on Hallowe’en,
      Rather out of season;
    Why at this hour they are seen,
      We’d rather not tell the reason!
    We hide our hands, ’tis very true,
    And secrets we will keep from you;
    Right foot, left foot, whirl ’round about,
    The Hallowe’en muffs have all come out.

[_Three girls on left side of group and three on right side face their
respective sides and march across stage and return to their places.
Center three now march around and weave in and out the left and right
columns and resume position. All form circle and march around stage
holding muffs high above heads, come to front of stage and holding muffs
in both hands so letters are seen, recite_]:

H.:

    Hallowe’en, Hallowe’en,
    Witches are seen.

A.:

    All the fairy folks come out.
    They’ll scare you without any doubt.

L.:

    Look above you, look and see,
    The owls are hooting merrily.

L.:

    Learn to be heard, but never seen,
    At this hour on Hallowe’en.

O.:

    Over the hilltop, comes a shout,
    Jack Frost cries, “Come out, come out!”

W.:

    Witches and hobgoblins, too,
    Are often on the watch-out for you!

E.:

    Elves and fairies, Jack-o’-Lanterns, too,
    Are waiting to scare you, it is true.

E.:

    Every year strange sights are seen,
    Out in the woods on Hallowe’en.

N.:

    Now the last line we have spoken,
    Witches’ spell is broken, broken.

[_They all sing._]

Tune: “Blue Bells of Scotland.”

1.

    Oh where, and oh where, is our witch on Hallowe’en?
    Oh where, and oh where, is our witch on Hallowe’en?
    She’s gone to scare you all,
    For what reason we can’t tell;
    So we sing you a song,
    And we wish you very well.

[_They continue singing._]

2.

    Oh where, and oh where, is the black cat on Hallowe’en? etc.

3.

    Oh where, and oh where, is Brownie Boy on Hallowe’en? etc.

4.

    Oh where, and oh where, is the wise owl on Hallowe’en?

[_At completion of the fourth verse they quickly whirl muffs around to
show owl’s head, turn, and skip out right and left._]




Dialogs and Plays




The Hallowe’en Ghosts


[_A dialog for twenty or more children, all ages. Eight wear sheet and
pillow-case garments, enter from right and left on a darkened stage, make
comical gestures, whirl round in couples, line up, recite_]:

    We’re the Hallowe’en Ghosts,
    Much like lamp posts;
    We make curious hosts,
    We’re the Hallowe’en Ghosts.
    Hush, hush, hush!

[_One at a time, they tip-toe back to seats arranged at back of stage._]

FIRST:

    Oh! who will sing a ghostly song?

SECOND:

    Ghostly hours to us belong.

THIRD:

    We ought to act in a ghostly way.

FOURTH:

    The Harvest Moon makes it bright as day.

FIFTH:

    We try to speak in a ghostly voice.

SIXTH:

    On Hallowe’en we have no choice.

SEVENTH:

    The time is late, the hours advance.

EIGHTH:

    We soon will give a ghostly dance!

ALL:

    To learn to be ghosts in any season.
    Is difficult, do you know the reason?

FIRST:

    We might learn to groan and also moan!

[_All moan._]

SECOND:

    Who’s next to speak?
    Why not learn to shriek?

[_All cry._]

FIRST:

    I’m the ghost of a song, forgotten long,
    I hum as I join this silent throng;
    A ghost, of course, should properly grieve,
    When he has lost “Sweet Genevieve.”

[_They hum or sing, “Sweet Genevieve.”_]

SECOND:

    I’m the ghost of the flowers, for hours and hours
    I’ve watered them with my tears, like showers;
    What if the ghostly flowers should be seen
    Here, late tonight on Hallowe’en?

[_Tiny children enter with hoops of flowers, go through short drill and
silently vanish._]

THIRD:

    I’m the ghost of a dream, strange it may seem,
    I ride up and down on a pale moonbeam;
    The witch with her cat, neither lean nor fat,
    Side by side on a broomstick sat!

[_A witch, cat and broom, cut from paper, are slowly lowered from above
and withdrawn._]

FOURTH:

    I’m the ghost of a turkey, who once strutted gay,
    And came to his end on Thanksgiving Day!

ALL:

    Ha ha; ho, ho; what did he say,
    The turkey—a ghost on Thanksgiving Day!

[_A large picture of a turkey, or one cut from paper, should be lowered
from above._]

FIFTH:

    I’m the ghost of the leaves, my spirit grieves,
    As my fancy a picture about them weaves;
    They dance and they play in merry October,
    The life of the leaves can never be over!

[_Children wearing dresses covered with autumn leaves dance in; six
at the right, six at the left; pass each other several times, form a
circle. All go to center and back, holding hands high; every other one
to center and back, every other one in place; every other one in center,
remain there, form two circles, one circle right, one left; march right
and left, meet in lines; march by twos, fours, sixes; march right and
left, repeat; one line stands, the other line marches around them, weaves
in and out between them; the line that marched, now remains still while
the other line marches around them, and weaves in and out between them;
form a circle at right and left of stage, skip out._]

SIXTH:

    I’m the ghost of a story book you know,
    Left a whole year out under the snow.

ALL:

    He left the book in some secret nook,
    Tell us, has it a spooky look?

[_Here a good ghost story may be told._]

SEVENTH:

    I can neither retreat nor advance,
    I tell you I’m the ghost of a dance;
    I’m educated, but I regret,
    I can’t remember the minuet.

[_All shake heads._]

EIGHTH:

    I’m the ghost of the cat, who for long hours sat,
    Warm by the hearth, on a bright red mat.

ALL:

    Meow—Meow—Meow.

[_They now dance two and two and silently whirl off; or they may leave
their seats one at a time, and the last one runs off shrieking._]




On Hallowe’en Night

A PLAY IN FOUR SCENES


CHARACTERS

    SIX WITCHES—Either boys or girls.
    TEACHER—Larger girl.
    LITTLE BOO-HOO—Small girl.
    LITTLE NEVER-CARE—Small boy.
    MISS TEASER—Girl.
    MR. NEVER-SAY-PLEASE—Boy.
    SCHOOL CHILDREN—Any number.
    FOUR OWLS—Either boys or girls.
    FOUR CATS—Either boys or girls.
    TRUMPETER—Small boy.
    COLUMBUS—Larger boy.
    SAILORS—Any number.


COSTUMES

Witches wear long, black capes, pointed black hats and carry broomsticks.

Owls and Cats wear masks.

The other characters may wear their names on their sashes or caps, unless
more elaborate costumes can be provided.

No special scenery is needed.


SCENE I

[_In the woods. Witches enter from right and left._]

[_Three recite_]:

    On Hallowe’en night, when the moon is bright,
      And all the world is still;
    On Hallowe’en night, when the moon is bright,
      We come tripping o’er the hill.

[_Others recite_]:

    On Hallowe’en night, we will scare you quite,
      If you mortals will come out;
    On Hallowe’en night, we will scare you quite,
      We’re wise witches without a doubt.

[_They stand in line, tap canes after each recitation._]

FIRST:

    One little boy cries when he goes upstairs.

SECOND:

    One little boy will not say his prayers.

THIRD:

    One little girl will cry and tease.

FOURTH:

    One little girl will never say “Please.”

FIFTH:

    Little boys, little girls, we laugh and shout.

SIXTH:

    Ha, ha; ho, ho; the witches are out.

[_All sing._]

Tune: “Coming Through the Rye.”

1.

    If you ever chance to wander,
      Late on Hallowe’en;
    If you ever chance to wander,
      Many sights are seen.
    Witches are so very funny,
      In their cap and gown;
    Just hear our canes go rap-a-tap,
      The witches are in town.

2.

    Soon the witches will be dancing,
      Out upon the green;
    Soon the witches will be dancing,
      Late on Hallowe’en.
    With their canes a-rapping, tapping,
      You can hear them shout,
    If they catch a mortal napping,
      He had best look out!

[_They dance two and two, and dance out._]


SCENE II

[_In a schoolroom. A large sign at back of stage, “Kept After School.”
Teacher at desk, several children in seats._]

TEACHER:

    Late today and late tomorrow,
    Tardiness will bring much sorrow.

LITTLE BOO-HOO:

    I’m always late, what can I do,
    But cry again, Little Boo-Hoo.

LITTLE NEVER-CARE:

    I’m the little boy who Never Cares,
    I even forget to say my prayers.

MISS TEASER:

    I’m only known as Little Miss Teaser,
    Nothing ever is known to please her.

MR. NEVER-SAY-PLEASE:

    I am Mr. Never-Say-Please,
    I quite forget kind words like these.

TEACHER:

    To be on time, now is the rule,
    And I have kept you after school;
    But you’d better run home now without doubt,
    ’Tis Hallowe’en, the witches are out.

[_The Witches are seen peeping in door or window.]_

CHILDREN:

    Ha, ha; ho, ho; we need some switches,
    To keep away the silly witches;
    To be disturbed we do not mean,
    When homeward bound on Hallowe’en.


SCENE III

[_Same as Scene I. Many children are seen hurrying along through the
woods with dinner pails, the four who were kept after school coming in
last, and finally left alone on the stage. They sing or recite._]

Tune: “Lightly Row.”

1.

    Autumn time, autumn time,
      All the leaves are falling down;
    Autumn time, autumn time,
      Leaves of red and brown.
    Trip it lightly as you go,
    Hallowe’en has come you know;
    Autumn time, autumn time,
    Witches are in town.

2.

    Hallowe’en, Hallowe’en,
      Comes but once in every year;
    Hallowe’en, Hallowe’en,
      Fairies will appear.
    Little elves in wood and glen,
    Are the little fairy men;
    Hallowe’en, Hallowe’en,
    Spooks are drawing near.

OWL [_behind scenes_]:

    How do you do? How do you do?
    Tu-whit, tu-whoo, tu-whit, to-whoo.

CHILDREN:

    If we were good, yes, very, very good,
    We never would be lost in the woods.

CAT [_behind scenes_]:

    Would you like to get out?
    I could tell you how
    If you learned my language,
    Meow—meow.

CHILDREN:

    Ghostly shadows linger near,
    We are lost it doth appear.

[_Witches come in, circle round the children._]

WITCHES:

    Spell of air and spell of water,
    For each little son and daughter;
    Turn them into dolls today,
    Or wooden statues as we say.
    You’ll need some manners it is seen,
    Even now, on Hallowe’en.

[_They lead a boy and a girl right, a boy and a girl left, where they
stand still as statues while the play continues._]

WITCHES [_rapping_]:

    Rap-a-tap, rap-a-tap,
    Take a little winter nap;
    Little Owls, little Cats, where have you been,
    Come, join our revels on Hallowe’en!

[_Enter Cats and Owls._]

    Dance and play, dance and play,
      Summer days are over;
    Dance away, dance away,
      Last night of October.

CATS:

    We are the Cats, we bow and sing,
    And we can do most anything.

OWLS:

    We are the Owls, with eyes so bright,
    We’re always “seein’ things at night.”

FIRST CAT:

    What’s yonder there? [_Points to children._]

SECOND CAT:

    Just see him stare!

THIRD CAT:

    And here, and here.

FOURTH CAT:

    Some spell, ’tis clear.

FIRST OWL:

    A paper doll’s worth lots of money.

SECOND OWL:

    This one holds a basket, it is funny.

THIRD OWL:

    A wooden statue now I see.

FOURTH OWL:

    His dinner pail appeals to me!

[_Cats circle round boy and girl at right, Owls round boy and girl at
left. The curtain falls._]


SCENE IV

[_Same as Scene III. Two boys and two girls still remain on stage in the
statue-like positions. Three ships are next shown on a sheet, and led by
a trumpeter, Columbus and his Sailors enter._]

TRUMPETER:

    Blow, trumpet, blow; blow, trumpet, blow,
      Columbus is a rover;
    Blow, trumpet, blow; blow, trumpet, blow,
      With his discovery over.
    He may not know which way to go,
    Blow, trumpet, blow; blow, trumpet, blow.

[_Enter Columbus and Sailors; Sailors dance and sing._]

Tune: “Yankee Doodle.”

1.

    We’re sailors bold on Hallowe’en,
      We love the water’s motion;
    We’re sailors bold on Hallowe’en,
      We make a great commotion.

CHORUS.

    Sing! hurrah for Hallowe’en,
      See Columbus coming;
    Sing! hurrah for Hallowe’en,
      Join us in our humming.

2.

    We’re sailors bold on Hallowe’en,
      And up the mast we’re going;
    We’re sailors bold on Hallowe’en,
      And stormy winds are blowing.

3.

    We’re sailors bold on Hallowe’en,
      We’ll land and give a party;
    We’re sailors bold on Hallowe’en,
      We give a greeting hearty.

SAILORS:

    In 1492, we made discoveries, it is true,
    Some claim there is nothing ever new
    At midnight on Hallowe’en.

COLUMBUS:

    Whist! be still! what have we here?
    Some new discoveries it is clear.

[_Columbus goes to boys and girls._]

COLUMBUS:

    Oh! who will break the magic spell,
      The Witches are about;
    The Owls and Cats now re-appear.
      There’s mischief without doubt!

[_The Witches, Owls and Cats creep in._]

OWLS:

    Be good—remember words like these,
    Go home and do not pout or tease;
    And do remember what you’ve seen
    Late at night on Hallowe’en.
    Or else next year we’ll call for you,
    Tu-whit, tu-whoo, tu-whit, tu-whoo!

CATS:

    Be good—and try to be polite,
    As well as learn to read and write;
    For enchanted you have been,
    On this night of Hallowe’en.
    If you want to improve, we’ll tell you how,
    Meow—meow—meow—meow.

WITCHES:

    Believe in witches if you choose,
    Just go about and spread the news;
    We’ll try to get you without doubt,
    On Hallowe’en if you are out.
    You’ve felt tonight the Witches’ spell,
    Little mortals, fare-you-well.

[_The Cats, Owls and Witches go out. Columbus brings out a large flag,
the Sailors circle right and left around the children, recite and close
with one verse of Star Spangled Banner; children come to life and join in
chorus._]

COLUMBUS:

    We’ll wave a flag red, white and blue,
    The bonnie banner for me and you;
    Come, form a ring, we’ll dance and sing,
    ’Twill break the spell of everything.

[_All wave flags as they sing chorus, and all who have taken part in the
play, re-enter, line up in the back, and join in the chorus._]




Jack Frost’s Surprise

A HALLOWE’EN PLAY IN ONE ACT


CHARACTERS

    JACK FROST
    WITCH
    JACK-BE-NIMBLE
    JACK-IN-THE-PULPIT
    JACK-IN-THE-BOX
    JACK SPRAT
    JACK-O’-LANTERN
    JACK TAR
    JACK HORNER
    SIX SAILOR BOYS


COSTUMES

Jack Frost should wear a white costume with a belt cut in points, from
which little bells are hung, also a pointed cap with a bell sewed on the
end of it.

The Jacks may wear appropriate costumes or have their names printed on
their belts or caps. Jack-in-the-Box should wear a large pasteboard box
upon his person and, of course, must pop up from the box occasionally.

Witch should wear black dress and cape and high hat. May carry a
broomstick.

Sailors may wear regular sailor suits, or white suits and sailor hats.

[_Enter Jack Frost from left, Witch from right._]

JACK FROST:

    I am Jack Frost, Jolly Jack Frost,
    Through the woods today my way I lost;
    This self-same thing I oft discover,
    In October the summer’s over.
    Though elves come tripping o’er the green,
    I’m the only Jack upon the scene.

WITCH:

    Ha, ha, ha, on Hallowe’en,
    Ghosts and elves are often seen;
    And many a Jack trips o’er the green,
    Ha, ha, ha, on Hallowe’en!

JACK FROST:

    Though the wrong road we have taken,
    In that surely you’re mistaken;
    Even summers charm is lost,
    But I’m the only Jack—Jack Frost.

[_Witch taps with her cane, enter Jack-be-Nimble with candlestick._]

JACK-BE-NIMBLE:

    I’m Jack-be-Nimble, I have to be quick
    When I jump over my candlestick;
    I’m most as nimble as a rabbit,
    For jumping soon becomes a habit.

[_Jack Frost shakes hands with Jack-be-Nimble, and the Witch taps with
her cane each time, as a new Jack enters._]

JACK-IN-THE-PULPIT:

    I am Jack-in-the-Pulpit, very shy,
    Scarce glancing at the passerby;
    If truths on Hallowe’en you’d teach,
    You’d find me very glad to preach.

JACK-IN-THE-BOX:

    I’m Jack-in-the-Box, I know no reason,
    For feeling sad in any season;
    I like to pop up on Hallowe’en,
    When many a curious sight is seen.

JACK SPRAT:

    I’m Jack Sprat, and tired at that,
    There’s only one story you hear;
    I’m Jack Sprat, eating lean, not fat,
    At any time of the year.

WITCH:

    Ha, ha, ha, you’re a jolly fellow,
    Come on, now, be a story-teller.

[_Jack Sprat takes his stuffed cat out from under arm._]

JACK SPRAT:

    My Hallowe’en cat, behold her here,
    I like her well though she has but one ear;
    To get a bargain she never will try,
    She went after butter when butter was high!

[_Jack-o’-Lantern, boy with lighted lantern, enters by door or window._]

JACK-O’-LANTERN:

    I peep in the window, or look in the door,
    Jolly Jack-o’-Lantern, you’ve seen me before;
    I stand on the lamp post, or grin on the gate,
    On Hallowe’en night you dare not be late.
    See my big mouth and shining eyes,
    I’m bound to give you a surprise.

JACK TAR:

    They say, “Who is this fellow? see how he dances,
    Lightly retreats, and lightly advances”;
    Who else is coming? around him he glances,
    Jolly Jack Tar, the hornpipe he dances!

[_Enter many sailor boys, dance or jig, line up and sing._]

Tune: “Marching Through Georgia.”

MERRY SAILOR LADS

1.

    Merry sailor lads are we,
    Upon the sea we go;
    Singing quite new-fangled tunes,
    And songs of long ago.
    As we journey on our way
    We sing, “Ye-ho, ye-ho”
    While we are sailing the ocean.

CHORUS.

    Away, away, our ship’s a tidy craft,
    Away, away, we never stoop to graft;
    See our tidy vessel now, we man her fore and aft
    While we are sailing the ocean.

2.

    Happy-hearted sailor lads,
    We really know no fear;
    Our home is out upon the sea,
    We’ve sailed for years and years.
    When we see the bonnie flag,
    We always give three cheers
    While we are sailing the ocean.

[_While sailors are singing, Witch goes off stage and comes back with
Jack Horner, who sits down at corner of stage._]

SAILORS [_point to Jack Horner in a corner eating pie_]:

    Ha, ha, if we linger longer.
    We discover old Jack Horner;
    Ha, ha; ho, ho; the sailors cry,
    We’ll help you eat your Christmas pie.

JACK HORNER:

    You’re very welcome to my pie,
    I’ve sat for years and years;
    According now to history,
    Hallowe’en appears.

SAILORS:

    Take his pie and rid the corner,
    Of this greedy little Jack Horner.

[_The Witch and Jack Frost are in front, the other Jacks behind them; the
rest of the school may line up for the chorus, waving banners, on which
is written the word_ “HALLOWE’EN.” _They all sing._]

Tune: “Yankee Doodle.”

THE SPOOK SONG

1.

    Surprises come on Hallowe’en,
      You know ’tis very true, sir;
    We’ll trip it lightly o’er the green,
      That’s what the Spooks all do, sir!

CHORUS.

    Sing! hurrah for Hallowe’en,
      Hear our gentle humming;
    Sing! hurrah for Hallowe’en,
      Soon the Spooks are coming.

2.

    The sights and sounds of Hallowe’en,
      Are nothing very new, sir;
    We’ll never tell you what we’ve seen,
      Our song is very true, sir!

[_This may end the program, or the stage may be quickly darkened and the
Hallowe’en Ghosts may be given._]




An Historical Hallowe’en


An interesting play in which customs and superstitions of the various
countries represented are mentioned. Costumes will add much to the
program. Spirit of the Year may wear long, white robe. Owl and Cat may
wear masks. In connection with the play several national anthems might be
sung.

[_Have a panel with curtain arranged at back of stage, so that same can
be drawn open and closed very easily. The characters must be ready to
appear one after the other. The Owl and Cat may draw out their yells so
as to afford more time for the change behind curtain. The Spirit of the
Year announces each character as curtain is drawn open. Enter Spirit of
the Year._]

SPIRIT OF THE YEAR:

    Once again ’tis Hallowe’en,
    Strange figures show upon the screen;
    Hallowe’en in every nation,
    Still is kept o’er all creation.
    Some superstitions I hold ’tis true,
    I am the Spirit of the Year,
    I bow to you.

[_Enter Owl from left._]

OWL:

    Who—Who—Who—o—o?
    A very wise owl on Hallowe’en
    Is often heard, but seldom seen.

[_Enter Cat from right._]

CAT:

    Meow—Meow—Meow—ow.
    I am a cat that belongs to history,
    In my heart is many a mystery.

SPIRIT OF THE YEAR:

    Who comes here?
    A voice I hear.

OWL:

    Who—Who—Who—o—o?

CAT:

    Meow—Meow—Meow—ow.

[_The curtain is drawn and the first character is shown. Characters may
pose as tableaux before reciting._]

[_Egyptian, girl dressed in flowing white robe and head-dress, seated at
spinning wheel._]

EGYPT:

    Osiris, the sun god was killed today,
    His brother Siton will hold full sway;
    The god of darkness, you understand,
    In winter days shall rule our land.
    At the turn of the year your work begin,
    Spin—spin—spin.

OWL:

    Who—Who—Who—o—o?

CAT:

    Meow—Meow—Meow—ow.

[_Englishman, boy dressed in hunter’s breeches and cap, red coat, carries
short whip._]

ENGLAND:

    In England the hounds a-hunting go,
    The Spectre Hunter leads you know;
    You can hear their hoofs, though they’re only seen,
    Late at night on Hallowe’en.
    Leave some berries for the “Little People,”
    Or the Goblins you’ll see upon a steeple!

OWL:

    Who—Who—Who—o—o?

CAT:

    Meow—Meow—Meow—ow.

[_Welshman, boy wearing long, dark cloak and high-pointed, black hat._]

SOUTH WALES:

    The Druid’s altar still is here,
    With fires lighted once a year;
    Many stones about you see,
    A part of witch’s mystery.
    If you are caught this night alone,
    You may also be turned to stone.

OWL:

    Who—Who—Who—o—o?

CAT:

    Meow—Meow—Meow—ow.

SOUTH WALES:

    In a fire, each threw a stone,
    With a mark to call his own;
    If in the morning ’twas not found,
    In twelve months he’d be under ground.

OWL:

    Who—Who—Who—o—o?

CAT:

    Meow—Meow—Meow—ow.

[_Japanese, girls dressed in regular Japanese costumes. Several may
pose in this tableaux. After speaking, they may come forward and give a
Japanese Fan or Parasol Drill. Go off stage._]

JAPAN:

    The ghosts come back in fair Japan,
    Some with parasol, some with fan;
    Keep your lanterns burning bright,
    Send out your boat, speed on tonight.
    To bring back spirits though they’ll not stay,
    To greet us on mid-summer day;
    Blow out your rush-lights, one at a time,
    Repeating for each a simple rhyme.

OWL:

    Who—Who—Who—o—o?

CAT:

    Meow—Meow—Meow—ow.

[_American, girl dressed as Goddess of Liberty. Carries horseshoe._]

AMERICA:

    I lean a little to ghosts and witches,
    Hobgoblins too, who all use switches!
    But this will keep one from all harm,
    See, I carry a horse-shoe charm!

OWL:

    Who—Who—Who—o—o?

CAT:

    It may be another name for pluck,
    But a horse shoe always brings good luck.

[_Irish, girl dressed in green skirt with bodice, white blouse and apron.
Have an older person speak. Smaller folks come on stage and give a fairy
dance and song._]

IRELAND:

    Here I come with fairies many,
    If you’re dull you can’t see any:
    Gnomes, earth spirits by my side,
    Close to earth delight to hide.
    The “Little People,” very small.
    The “Good People,” who are very tall;
    The “Gods” and “Leprechauns” ’tis true,
    Go “rat-a-tat-tat,” they make a shoe.

[_All sing._]

Tune: “Lightly Row.”

    Dance away, dance away,
    Vanish ’ere the break of day;
    Dance away, dance away,
    Late on Hallowe’en.
    Fairy folk all wish you well,
    As they cast on you a spell;
    Dance away, dance away,
    Late on Hallowe’en.

[_Fairies ran off stage._]

OWL:

    Who—Who—Who—o—o?

CAT:

    Meow—Meow—Meow—ow.

[_Druids, boys wearing priest-like robes, pass at the back of stage, and
recite alone or in couples._]

DRUIDS:

    As of old, each Druid passes,
      Worshipping the sun;
    While fairy music ’mid the grasses,
      Greets them one by one.
    Put out your fires on Hallowe’en,
    Relight them now so they are seen;
    Carry embers to each home,
    Relight your fires, no harm may come.
    After the Druids reappear,
    No harm will come to you this year.

OWL:

    Who—Who—Who—o—o?

CAT:

    Meow—Meow—Meow—ow.

[_Scotchman, six boys in kilts, recite following verses and then may
dance the Highland Fling and sing “Blue Bells of Scotland.”_]

SCOTLAND—FIRST BOY:

    Hist! be still! what do I see?
    A spirit in each walnut tree.

SECOND BOY:

    Ha, ha, if you want to hide,
    Away from the wild huntsman, ride.

THIRD BOY:

    Nuts and apples for a treat,
    All the year you find so sweet.

FOURTH BOY:

    The bonfires we will light in turn,
    While the wicked witches burn.

FIFTH BOY:

    Pile cabbage stalks up by your door,
    The fairies have brought the stork before.

SIXTH BOY:

    At cross-roads don’t linger, lad or lass,
    ’Tis there the Hallowe’en fairies pass.

[_They give a little drill in imitation of a torch-light procession,
using electric torches or electric candles. Recite as they march._]

FIRST BOY:

    Heigho, for the fairies on Hallowe’en,
    They scamper away across the green.

ALL:

    They’re looking for me, they’re looking for you,
    Oh scamper away whatever you do!

SECOND BOY:

    Hist! be still on Hallowe’en,
    The torch procession now is seen.

ALL:

    They’re looking for me, they’re looking for you,
    Oh scamper away whatever you do!

THIRD BOY:

    On Hallowe’en night if you bum a light,
    You’ll frighten away each elf and sprite.

ALL:

    They’re looking for me, they’re looking for you,
    Oh scamper away whatever you do!

FOURTH BOY:

    On Hallowe’en night a light is a charm,
    ’Twill surely keep you from all harm.

ALL:

    They’re looking for me, they’re looking for you,
    Oh scamper away whatever you do!

FIFTH BOY:

    Be very careful how you talk,
    Better learn to walk the chalk.

ALL:

    They’re looking for me, they’re looking for you,
    Oh scamper away whatever you do!

SIXTH BOY:

    Over the hills and far away,
    Let’s scamper ’till the break of day.

ALL:

    They’re looking for me, they’re looking for you,
    Oh scamper away whatever you do!

[_Scamper off right and left. All who have taken part return on stage,
America carries large flag. Sing one verse of “Star Spangled Banner” to
close._]

CURTAIN




The Witch’s Dream


CHARACTERS AND COSTUMES

    FEAR—Wearing black cloak, carries banner with the word “_Fear_” printed
      on it.
    WITCH—Regular witch costume, carries megaphone.
    OWL—Owl mask and gray cape.
    CAT—Cat mask and black cape.
    RAIN—Raincoat and cap, may carry umbrella.
    MOON—Yellow suit, moon face.
    JACK-O’-LANTERN—Carries large Jack-o’-Lantern.
    COURAGE—Gay dress, carries banner with the word “_Courage_” printed
      on it.
    FOUR BOYS—With brooms.

[_The lights are dim on the stage, the Witch sits at right of stage and
raps with her cane. Enter Fear._]

FEAR:

    Ha, ha, ha, it’s very queer,
    That you don’t recognize me here;
    I travel with you every year
    Old Witch, I introduce myself,
    I, am FEAR!

WITCH:

    Hallowe’en is drawing near,
    I never felt one-half so queer;
    Strange shapes and phantoms now appear,
    Hark! what noises do I hear?

[_Enter Wind._]

WIND:

    OOO—OOO—OOO, I blow and blow,
    I am the boisterous Wind you know,
    Ha, ha, I’ll scare you without doubt,
    Where is the Witch? come out, come out.
    Ha, ha, I never make a mistake,
    We’re due to burn you at the stake!

WITCH:

    Come Cat, come Owl, protect me do,
    If what the old Wind says is true;
    I’ll stay inside where I can’t be seen,
    On this night of Hallowe’en.

[_Enter Owl._]

OWL:

    Tu-whit, tu-whoo, we’ll stay by you,
    Faithful mascots tried and true.

[_Enter Cat._]

CAT:

    A Witch once on a broomstick sat,
    Says the merry old Cat, what think you of that?
    With her Cat she went riding up on high,
    She said, “I’ll be back again by and by.”
    Where went the Cat? I lost track,
    But she never came back, never came back!

OWL:

    She never came back, never came back!

[_The Witch shrieks. Enter Rain._]

RAIN:

    There’s a goblin in the Rain,
    Hear him tapping on the pane;
    Rapping, tapping, don’t go napping,
    While he’s tapping on the pane.
    Rapping, tapping, rapping, tapping,
    Hear the goblin’s odd refrain;
    Rapping, tapping, rapping, tapping,
    On the window pane!

OWL:

    We’ll not go napping, while he’s tapping,
    Rapping, tapping, on the window pane!

[_Witch shrieks. Enter Moon._]

MOON:

    The Man in the Moon through the clouds will peep,
    Late in the night, when good people sleep;
    I can’t tell you all the sights I’ve seen,
    Is the Witch within? Is the Witch within?

WITCH:

    There must be enchantment in the Moon,
    First it rains, then it clears too soon;
    Pull in the shutter, and pull down the shade,
    On Hallowe’en night I’m surely afraid.

[_Fear skips round waving her wand. Enter boys with brooms._]

BOYS:

    Where’s the Witch? We’re not mistaken,
    ’Tis the hour to waken, waken;
    Perhaps already she’s o’ertaken
    By sprites on Hallowe’en!

FIRST BOY:

    Sweep the cobwebs from the sky,
    I’ll bring the Witch back by and by!

SECOND BOY:

    Ride her on a creaking broom,
    I’ll bring her swiftly to her doom!

THIRD BOY:

    In her own kettle let her bubble,
    Cook her, it will save much trouble!

FOURTH BOY:

    Strike her with a broom three times three!
    She’s a wicked Witch we all agree!

ALL:

    One, two, sweep the floor [_with motions_],
    Clean it neatly as before;
    Two, three, shoulder arms [_on shoulders_],
    When we hark for war’s alarms.
    Three, four, with arms extended [_extend brooms_],
    What is broken can be mended;
    So we could drill the live-long night,
    But vanish along with elf and sprite.

[_They sweep floor, look around fearfully; one at a time leave, the last
shrieks and runs off._]

WITCH:

    Shadows creeping, softly peeping,
    Who comes stealing while we’re sleeping?
    I’m tired now, my watch I’m keeping,
    Late on Hallowe’en!

JACK-O’-LANTERN [_peeping in_].

WITCH:

    What great big eyes he has!

[_Enter Jack-o’-Lantern._]

JACK-O’-LANTERN:

    I shine by candle-light.

OWL:

    What a great big nose he has!

JACK-O’-LANTERN:

    Make remarks more polite.

CAT:

    What a great big mouth he has!

JACK-O’-LANTERN:

    Yes, that’s to scare you, quite. [_Runs in._]

[_As Fear goes out, Courage enters._]

COURAGE:

    Harken to Courage, blithely she dances,
    Now she retreats, now she advances;
    Your fears seem so funny,
    For Courage is sunny,
    Her laughter is worth a whole pile of money!

[_The lights come on full, exit all but Witch, Cat and Owl._]

WITCH:

    Oh! Oh! I had a fearful dream!

OWL:

    Tu-whit, tu-whoo,
    Is that really true?

CAT:

    Teach me to dream, I don’t know how,
    I’m only a stupid cat—meow!

WITCH:

    I’ve made resolutions four and twenty.

OWL:

    Half that number would be a-plenty.

WITCH:

    I’ll not scare good folks any more.

CAT:

    We once heard you say that before.

WITCH:

    Ha, ha, I’ll never again act mean.

OWL:

    You’d laugh if you saw this on the screen!

CAT:

    Oh give me a platter, I’d lick it clean!

ALL:

    Hurrah! hurrah! for Hallowe’en.

[_All the characters who took part, and the entire school, if desired,
may now line up at the back and sing._]

Tune: “Twinkle Little Star.”

1.

    Late at night on Hallowe’en,
    Many funny sights are seen;
    Better mind your A, B, C’s,
    As the Witches often tease.

2.

    If they get their kettles out,
    They will boil you without doubt;
    Walk the chalk and be polite,
    If you do not want a fright.

3.

    What’s the use to go to bed,
    Witches often times have said;
    ’Tis a habit, but we call
    Good-night, good-night, to one and all.




A Hallowe’en Carnival and Wax-work Show


CHARACTERS

    FOLLY—An older boy.
    OWL—A small boy.
    CAT—A small boy.
    WITCH—An older girl.
    STILT-WALKERS—Any number boys and girls.
    MAD MARCH HARE—A small boy.
    JACK-O’-LANTERN—A small boy.
    POPPY LADIES—Four girls.
    CHINAMAN—A boy.
    ESKIMO—A boy.
    JAPANESE—A girl.
    HOLLAND—A girl.
    INDIAN—A boy.
    NEGRO—A boy.

Silhouettes of bats, black cats and owls are hung by threads from the
ceiling. The characters are grouped about the stage. They wear fancy
costumes and masks, and pose as statues. Boys on stilts, standing at
right and left, help give a comical appearance; and children dressed in
costumes of all nations, carrying national flags may be in the groups.
Folly wears the most comical costume of all, he is attired as a court
jester, half the costume black, half yellow, wears a cap and bells,
carries a noisy rattle.


SCENE I

[_The first song is sung back of the scenes. Have stage darkened, only
Jack-o’-Lanterns as foot-lights._]

Tune: “The Campbells Are Coming.”

    On Hallowe’en Night, Ho, Ho, Ho, Ho,
    The Witches and Brownies, Ho, Ho. Ho, Ho;
    The Owls and the Cats. Ho. Ho. Ho, Ho,
    On Hallowe’en Night, Ho, Ho, Ho, Ho.

[_Lights come on._]

FOLLY:

    I am Folly, always jolly,
      Though I’m seldom seen;
    I am Folly, always jolly,
      Late on Hallowe’en.
    And if I am not mistaken,
    All these statutes waken, waken!
    Ha, ha, ha, hear Folly’s laughter,
    Fun and frolic follow after.

[_Folly touches the characters one at a time, with wand or rattle, they
rise stiffly, come to life and recite._]

OWL:

    I am the Owl, who—who—who?
    On Hallowe’en I follow you.

CAT:

    I am the Witch’s Cat, oft’ seen
    Late at night on Hallowe’en.

WITCH:

    Oh Folly, you’re a cunning fellow,
    In your costume black and yellow;
    Why not give a wax-work show,
    To entertain before we go?

FOLLY:

    I’ll wake the funny old stilt-walkers,
    Perhaps they’ll serve as the end talkers.

STILT-WALKERS:

    We’re rather tall, wherever seen,
    But we’ll enjoy this Hallowe’en.

MAD MARCH HARE:

    I’m the Mad March Hare, I do declare,
    Not popular now, anywhere;
    And if you give a wax-work show,
    I’m very sure I want to go.

JACK-O’-LANTERN:

    Jack-o’-Lantern, jolly rover,
    Happy is, in glad October.

WITCH:

    Ha, ha. Folly, I’ll cast a spell.
    Incantations I know well;
    My Poppy Ladies, I will call,
    They’ll wrap in slumber one and all.

FOLLY:

    My silver whistle, I will blow,
    The Poppy Ladies come, ho, ho.

[_Enter Poppy Ladies in crepe paper costumes, go through any pretty
little dance and sing._]

Tune: “Coming Through the Rye.”

    Poppy Ladies in October
      Sing a lullaby;
    And sweet dreams you will discover,
      Sandman hovers nigh.
    Dreamland fairies in October
      Form a magic ring,
    Hallowe’en brings many a rover,
      Poppy Ladies sing.

[_They go out, the Witch casts a spell indicating certain characters, who
will take part in the wax-work show in the next scene._]

WITCH:

    Ho, ho, come broomstick, cast a spell,
    On Hallowe’en, when all is well;
    All turn to wax, while sleeping, sleeping,
    Close your eyes, let’s have no peeping.
    You shall whistle, and you shall sing,
    You shall recite of fall or spring;
    You’ll be a wild rider in the show,
    You’ll dance a solo before we go.
    The boys and girls from many a nation,
    Will appear in their own creation;
    And only Folly can break the spell,
    Ha, ha, ho, ho, we wish you well.


SCENE II

The characters now are wax-like figures, very still, sitting in a row.
As Folly touches one with a wand he rises and goes through the stunt
suggested by the Witches spell in the last scene. One dances, one sings a
nonsense song, one may give a dumb-bell or Indian-club drill, one skates,
one comes forward on a Kiddy-cart to represent the wild rider. Bring in
all talent possible to make this part of the program funny. A Clown
Dance would be appropriate. The children of various nations recite.

CHINAMAN:

    I am Ching-Lo, Chinaman,
    Also known as funny man.

ESKIMO:

    I am Eskimo, and if you please,
    I enter doors on hands and knees.

JAPANESE:

    Across the sea to fair Japan,
    I carry parasol and fan.

HOLLAND:

    Clump, clump, go my wooden shoes,
    As I travel to carry news.

INDIAN:

    Indian in Indian summer weather,
    Carries war-paint, carries feathers.

NEGRO:

    Plunkety-plunk goes the old banjo,
    Down in the cotton field you know.

[_All taking attitude of playing banjo, say_]:

    Plunkety-plunk is a merry tune,
    Plunkety-plunk, ’neath the harvest moon;
    Plunkety-plunk with songs between,
    We’ll entertain on Hallowe’en.

[_Girls enter with mirrors, turn heads to look in mirror held over
shoulder and Folly peeps in each, so he is seen._]

ALL:

    Minor, mirror, what do you see?
    On Hallowe’en reveal to me.

FIRST:

    Mirror, mirror, that I hold,
    Many a fortune by you is told.
        Folly, Folly, Folly.

SECOND:

    Mirror, mirror, what do you mean,
    The hour strikes, ’tis Hallowe’en.
        Folly, Folly, Folly.

THIRD:

    Mirror, mirror, tell me true,
    If I meet my love, what shall I do?
        Folly, Folly, Folly.

FOURTH:

    Mirror, mirror, in my hand,
    Your charm I can not understand.
        Folly, Folly, Folly.

FOLLY:

    Merry lads and lassies too,
    Folly makes much fun for you;
    Can wax-work figures sing I wonder?
    Will they whisper? will they blunder?
    Can they keep a tune? I’ll see,
    I’ll wind them with my little key.

[_He winds them up one at a time, they rise, to his apparent surprise,
dance around, come forward, line up and sing._]

Tune: “Yankee Doodle.”

WAX-WORK SONG

1.

    We’re Wax-Work Figures in the show,
      We’re very fond of singing;
    We’re talented as you must know,
      You’ll hear our voices ringing.

CHORUS.

    Ha, ha, ha, we’re wound up well,
      You will soon discover;
    Why we’re singing, we can’t tell,
      In the late October

[_Hum the chorus._]

2.

    We’re Wax-Work Figures it is true,
      Let’s keep on humming, humming;
    We’ll do our very best for you,
      As Hallowe’en is coming.

[_Whistle chorus. Repeat words of chorus and go off right and left as
stiff figures would._]




The Play of Pomona

NOTE—The ancients believed that Pomona, the goddess of fruits, attracted
many lovers. She was finally won by Vertumnus, the god of the changing
year. To win her, he had to take on many forms. Offerings were made to
those gods in Rome at festival time.


CHARACTERS

    OCTOBER—A tall girl.
    WITCH—A tall girl or boy.
    TRUMPETER—A small boy.
    APPLES—Four girls.
    PEARS—Four girls.
    BANANAS—Four girls.
    GRAPES—Four girls.
    CHILD—A small boy.
    POMONA—A young lady.
    SUITORS—Any number of boys.
    VERTUMNUS—A young man.


COSTUME SUGGESTIONS

While no special costumes are necessary, they will add to the program.
The fruits especially should be made to represent what they speak of,
and the Horn of Plenty may be made of pasteboard, decorated with colored
fruits and flowers, or a large waste basket filled with fruits would do
for this purpose. October will be pretty crowned with autumn leaves.
There will be no difficulty in getting a long, black cape for the Witch,
and a pointed black hat. She carries a cane and raps on the floor when
ready to recite. Consult any ancient history for costumes for Pomona and
her suitors.


SCENE I

[_In the woods._]

OCTOBER:

    I am October, my fruits are mellow,
    My autumn leaves are red and yellow?
    I am October, my voice you hear
    On Hallowe’en, the fall of the year.

WITCH:

    Same old jokes on Hallowe’en,
    Same old pumpkins too are seen;
    October, with your skies so blue,
    Can’t you think up something _new_?

OCTOBER:

    By my side old Witch please stay,
    And we’ll enact a little play;
    Pomona, goddess of fruits, I’ll call,
    And she will entertain us all.
    Vertumnus, too, I’ll conjure here,
    The god he is, of the turning year!

WITCH:

    Ha, ha, the story I remember,
    He comes long before November;
    Though many shapes he takes to woo her,
    Nothing ever seems to do her
    Until he dons a gossip’s shoes,
    For truly, she is fond of news!

OCTOBER:

    Her attendants we’ll call without delay,
    For Pomona now is on her way.

[_A Trumpeter appears and blows his horn, each time before a fruit or
group of fruits enter._]

APPLES:

    Apples rosy, Apples red,
    See us nodding overhead;
    Apples rosy, round and sweet,
    Everywhere are good to eat.

[_Dance around in couples, and line up at back of stage._]

PEARS:

    We are Pears, so very shy,
    Scarcely nodding to passersby;
    As we heard Pomona call,
    We’ll do her honor one and all.

[_Dance in a circle, and line up beside Apples._]

BANANAS:

    We’re Bananas, spick and spandy,
    And you always find us handy;
    Ripe Bananas are so sweet,
    You will find us quite a treat.

[_Bow to partners, circle round each other, and line up at back._]

GRAPES:

    Purple Grapes, in early fall,
    We have heard Pomona’s call;
    And we come in late October,
    For the summer hours are over.

[_Join hands, skip forward and back, line up at back. Child enters with
Horn of Plenty, they circle, around her, singing._]

Tune: “Coming Through the Rye.”

    To the woodland we are going
      Late on Hallowe’en,
    We’ve no other way of knowing
      What strange sights are seen;
    But we bring the Horn of Plenty
      At this time of year,
    And a festival we’re keeping,
      For Pomona’s here.

[_Pomona enters, and is seated at right; the fruits in turn go to her and
bow, and the child offers her the Horn of Plenty. Many suitors now come
bowing to her in turn; they offer her fall fruits and flowers and gifts,
carrying them in baskets or on trays; the Knave of Hearts even comes
offering her his tarts, and Simple Simon offers her a pie. Last of all
comes Vertumnus, he is larger and more powerful than the rest; he simply
offers her an enormous red pasteboard heart._]

VERTUMNUS:

    Vertumnus, the god of the turning year,
    I come, Pomona, behold me here;
    Offerings are made to me in Rome,
    Will you share my fortunes? Pomona, come.

[_Pomona waves him away with the rest of the company, and the curtain
falls._]


SCENE II

[_Witch’s quarters in woods. The Witch and Vertumnus, seated at a table,
are talking over their cups of tea._]

WITCH:

    I’m the Witch of Hallowe’en,
    Many curious sights I’ve seen.
    I’m also a gipsy as you see,
    I’ll tell your fortune With leaves of tea.
    You must wear disguise, you understand,
    If you would win Pomona’s hand.
    Go as a Ploughman, talk of spring,
    Roses to her cheeks you’ll bring.
    As a Fisherman, talk of summer time,
    Charm her with your song and rhyme.
    A Reaper has enchanting ways
    When he sings of autumn days.
    As Old Woman Winter in ice and snow,
    You’ll interest her, I’m sure it’s so.
    When you have enchanted her, then arise,
    You can safely throw off your last disguise.

VERTUMNUS:

    Such fortunes in tea leaves we’ve seen,
    I’ll cry. “Hurrah for Hallowe’en;
    Hurrah! hurrah! for your time and trouble,
    May your kettle always boil and bubble.”

WITCH:

    Vertumnus, now if you are wise,
    You’ll not forget to wear disguise.

VERTUMNUS:

    In disguise I’ll journey, you understand,
    To seek again Pomona’s hand.


SCENE III

[_Pomona’s home in the woods. Pomona seated by spinning wheel. A knock is
heard, enter Vertumnus as ploughman._]

VERTUMNUS: Fair Pomona, I can not help but sing today; I come to tell you
of all the beauties of spring. If you will come with me to the fields you
will see new life returning everywhere. In every little blade of grass
upspringing, in every mellow bird note, there is nature’s call. See, I
have brought you the first violets.

POMONA: Very beautiful is your breath of spring, and the message the
violets bring me, but I would far rather stay here by my spinning wheel,
for even now nights and mornings are chilly. I care not for your wild,
sweet, spring music.

[_Vertumnus goes out. While Pomona spins, he returns as a fisherman._]

VERTUMNUS:

    I am a Fisherman, since you ask it,
    I made a catch that will fill your basket.
    How we all love summer, summer,
    She’s a fashionable new-comer.
    Now, sweet summer, with her roses,
    Happiness for all proposes.

POMONA: I care not for your wonderful catch of fish, or for your summer
roses. I have had bouquets before. Go back to your stream, young
fisherman, perhaps the fish will listen to your clumsy verses.

[_He goes out, returns as reaper, with a scythe or cycle._]

VERTUMNUS: What wonderful seasons we have, Pomona, this is the harvest
time. What a wealth of flowers, fruits and nuts meet our gaze, and the
cheerful bonfires are lighted everywhere. Soon Hallowe’en will be here.
I almost imagined I saw a Witch as I entered. [_The Witch peeps over the
screen, waving hand to audience._] I dream I hear October’s laughter as
she shakes the trees, from which the leaves leap and dance to the last
ball of the season. [_October peeps over screen and laughs._] Will you
come with me, Pomona?

[_Pomona does some real acting while this last recitation is given, she
appears almost to yield, but replies._]

POMONA: As I am the goddess of fruits, you almost persuade me. I hear the
far-off hunter’s horn, I feel the spell of Hallowe’en, but no—I am not
easily won.

[_Vertumnus now goes out and re-enters as old woman winter, he wears a
long cape with hood._]

VERTUMNUS: Have you heard the news? You must surely know. They say, and
they say, and they say. Oh, yes, I look like old winter with my frosty
fingers, but see, I bring Christmas and sleighing and good times and
_gossip_. Ha, ha! Oh, yes, I pay quite a fortune for shoes, for I travel
so far to carry the news.

WITCH [_over the screen_]:

    Gossip now is going to win her,
      Keep at it whatever you do;
    Gossip, like a hardened sinner,
      Stands you in good stead ’tis true.
    Gossip about whatever you choose,
    Drop a word here and there to carry the news;
    Never mind who listens over the screen,
    I’m the merry old Witch of Hallowe’en.

[_Pomona rises from stool and yields to Vertumnus. Vertumnus drops his
disguise and takes Pomona by the hand. They march forward and bow. The
Witch enters at right, October at left._]

WITCH:

    The goddess of fruits to merry October
    Calls, “Good-bye, the summer is over.”

OCTOBER:

    Vertumnus, the god of the turning year,
    Hath won her now, it doth appear.

POMONA:

    What our kind friends say is true,
    So we call, “Good-bye,” to you.

VERTUMNUS:

    Come, let the fall fruits and flowers,
    Return for a few more happy hours.

[_All who have taken part re-enter, heralded by trumpeter, line up,
sing._]

Tune: “Battle Hymn.”

1.

    Oh autumn time is coming,
    You can hear her trumpets call;
    While the fruits and nuts are falling,
    There is plenty for us all.
    We go o’er hill and valley
    Making bonfires in the fall,
    In happy harvest time.

CHORUS.

    Sing three cheers for glad October,
    Sing three cheers for summer’s over;
    Jack Frost comes, a merry rover,
    In happy harvest time.

2.

    Oh autumn time we love you
    With your fields of ripened wheat;
    And so bountiful the harvest
    All the glories we repeat.
    And at the hour of sunset
    You can hear our marching feet,
    In happy harvest time.

CHORUS.

CURTAIN OR MARCH OFF




Hallowe’en Puppet Play

[_The Puppets are shown over a screen, and a Showman comes out in front
to recite the prologue._]


CHARACTERS

    SHOWMAN
    WITCH
    CAT
    JACK-O’-LANTERN
    BROWNIE
    KNOWLEDGE
    PUNCH AND JUDY

TIME: Hallowe’en.

PLACE: High on the hill.

SHOWMAN:

    Little Puppets now are seen,
    Late at night on Hallowe’en,
    Sometimes thrown upon a screen.

    Sometimes from wires suspended high,
    You’ll see the Puppets passing by,
    Perhaps you’ll hear a wooden sigh.

    The Witch and Jack-o’-Lantern, too,
    A wooden speech will make for you,
    They’ll dance as any Puppets do.

    The Cat and Brownie, too, are here,
    ’Tis Hallowe’en, the hour draws near,
    And even Knowledge doth appear.

    Now, if you like such plays as these,
    Just come inside and take your ease,
    For Puppets always try to please.

WITCH:

    Ha, ha, ha, on Hallowe’en,
    Ghosts and goblins, too, are seen.

CAT:

    I’m the Hallowe’en Cat, I stalk about,
    I’ll scare some people, without doubt.

WITCH:

    What’s the meaning of Hallowe’en,
    Oh, Kit-Cat, with the eyes of green?

CAT:

    Meow, meow, I do not know,
    Hallowe’en Witch, let me go!

[_Exit the Cat._]

JACK-O’-LANTERN:

    I’m Jack-o’-Lantern, bright ’tis said,
    Though I am only a pumpkin head.

WITCH:

    Oh, Jack-o’-Lantern, with eyes so bright,
    What does Hallowe’en mean tonight?

JACK-O’-LANTERN:

    Oh, oh, oh, please let me go!
    Really Witch, I do not know.

[_Exit the Jack-o’-Lantern._]

BROWNIE:

    I’m a Brownie, o’er the green,
    I dance and sing on Hallowe’en.

WITCH:

    You’re the cutest Brownie I have seen,
    What is the meaning of Hallowe’en?

BROWNIE:

    I turn a somersault and go,
    For really, witch, I do not know.

[_Exit Brownie._]

WITCH [_stirs a kettle_]:

    Bubble, bubble, always bubble,
    Kettle brings us toil and trouble;
    None have I met, none have I seen,
    Who knows the meaning of Hallowe’en.

[_Exit Witch._]

PUNCH:

    I am Punch, odd things I’ve seen,
    Ha, ha, ho, ho, ’tis Hallowe’en.

JUDY:

    Let’s hide right here, below the screen,
    And ask the Witch what she may mean.

[_They hide._]

WITCH:

    Bubble, bubble, work and toil,
    In the kettle let me boil
    The Cat, Jack-o’-Lantern, and Brownie, too,
    Unless the answer they bring is true,
    I weave my spell where none have seen,
    Who knows the meaning of Hallowe’en?

CAT:

    I am the Cat of mystery,
    Hallowe’en belongs to _history_.

JACK-O’-LANTERN:

    The _Druids_ built fires all the year,
    In honor of the sun-god, I hear.

BROWNIE:

    On the 31st of October each year,
    To the altars they gather near;
    ’Twas then they put the fires out,
    And kindled fresh ones, without doubt.

CAT:

    Here are the _Druids_, I see them come,
    And they are carrying embers home.

JACK-O’-LANTERN:

    So goblins now skip o’er the green,
    Every year on Hallowe’en.

[_Witch goes out screaming as Knowledge enters._]

KNOWLEDGE:

I am Knowledge. I always frighten ghosts and goblins away, but I like
you, Cat, and Jack-o’-Lantern, and Brownie. You are all jolly, and
fairies, too, have their places to brighten up this old world. Let us
dance on the green this October night.

CAT:

    Ha, ha, ha, the summer’s over,
    Hallowe’en comes in gay October.

JACK-O’-LANTERN:

    Ha, ha, ha, the secret’s out,
    What Hallowe’en is all about.

BROWNIE:

    Trip it lightly o’er the green,
    On this night of Hallowe’en.

KNOWLEDGE:

    Hallowe’en comes with pleasant weather,
    We’ll have fun and frolic all together.

[_Exit all, while Punch and Judy return._]

PUNCH:

    How do little Puppets know
    That Hallowe’en is here?

JUDY:

    The Witches come, the Witches go,
    When Knowledge doth appear.

PUNCH:

    Hist! Be still! On Hallowe’en
    The Puppets are about!

JUDY:

    Jolly Jack-o’-Lantern, too, is seen,
    He’ll scare you, without doubt.

PUNCH AND JUDY:

    Punch and Judy are so merry
    Any time of year,
    They’re often seen on Hallowe’en.
    Just call, and they’ll appear.

[Directions for making Puppets and their manipulation will be found
in “Puppet Plays for Special Days,” price. 40 cents. Order from the
publishers of this book.]

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK HELPS AND HINTS FOR
HALLOWE'EN ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
